=head1 NAME

isoho.st - remote management script for isoho.st virtual machines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<isoho.st> help

B<isoho.st> add I<KEY> [alias]

B<isoho.st> remove I<IDENTIFIER> | I<ALIAS>

B<isoho.st> list

B<isoho.st> alias I<ALIAS> I<IDENTIFIER>

B<isoho.st> admin [I<NAME>] 

B<isoho.st> display [I<NAME>]

B<isoho.st> remote [I<NAME>]

B<isoho.st> shortcut [I<NAME>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This script is essentially a convenience wrapper for accessing the L<ssh(1)> based management interface 
as well as the SPICE based remote keyboard, mouse and video display for isoho.st virtual machines. It maintains 
a local database of machine access keys and provides a useful alias facility for attaching meaningful 
names to machine identifiers.

=head1 COMMANDS

=head2 help

Displays a short help message that provides valid script syntax. Most of the commands also support the 
additional help parameter, although help is also displayed when erroneous syntax is provided by the user.

=head3 EXAMPLE

B<isoho.st> add help

=head2 add 

Adds an L<ssh(1)> private I<KEY> to the local credential store. Keys are distributed to clients by isoho.st
and must not be renamed, as the machine identity is derived from the key's filename. An optional alias for the 
key may also be provided at the time it is added.

=head3 EXAMPLE

B<isoho.st> add xc0d77e2.key

=head2 remove

Removes a machine key from the local credential store (based on its I<IDENTIFIER>). Alternatively, an I<ALIAS> 
mapping can also be removed using this command. Removing an alias does not also delete the associated key, 
however, removing a key will delete any associated alias mappings. To remove a machine key, the machine 
identifier must be given and not the original key filename that was provided to the B<add> command. Use 
the B<list> command to display a list of valid removal targets. External keys cannot be removed by the 
isho.st script.

=head3 EXAMPLES

B<isoho.st> remove phobos 

B<isoho.st> remove xc0d77e2

=head2 list

Displays a listing of the keys stored in the local credential store along with any associated aliases. 
Aliases for machine identifiers with keys external to the isoho.st credential store are denoted 
"(external)" in the listing.

=head3 EXAMPLE

B<isoho.st> list

=head2 alias

Associates a convenience I<ALIAS> with a key stored in the local credential store. If the key does not exist 
within the credential store, then it is assumed that the ssh(1) identity associated with the machine account 
is maintained externally. In such cases, the I<ALIAS> simply serves as a convenience handle so that the machine 
I<IDENTIFIER> does not need to be remembered.

=head3 EXAMPLE

B<isoho.st> alias phobos xc0d77e2

=head2 admin

The admin command presents a simple menu system via L<ssh(1)> with the following capabilities:

=over 2 

=item * attach the local terminal to the remote serial console  

=item * restore automated backup snapshots

=item * insert and remove virtual CDROM/DVD images

=item * reboot, power off and power on the virtual machine

=back

A facility to obtain the connection details for manual configuration of a SPICE client is also provided, 
however, the B<display> command automates this, thus making such manual configuration unnecessary.

The I<NAME> parameter may be either an I<ALIAS> or a machine I<IDENTIFIER> and can be omitted entirely if
there is only a single entry in the local credential store.

=head3 EXAMPLES

B<isoho.st> admin

B<isoho.st> admin phobos

B<isoho.st> admin xc0d77e2

=head2 display

Launches a SPICE client and connects it to the given virtual machine's keyboard, mouse and video (KVM) 
display. Note that the machine must be in the powered up state using the B<admin> interface in order to 
be able to connect to it.

The <SHIFT>-<F12> key can be handy in getting you out of trouble if the keyboard and mouse are grabbed 
exclusively by the client. It will also get you out of full screen mode where <SHIFT>-<F11> doesn't 
work.

The I<NAME> parameter may be either an I<ALIAS> or a machine I<IDENTIFIER> and can be omitted entirely if
there is only a single entry in the local credential store.

=head3 EXAMPLES

B<isoho.st> display

B<isoho.st> display phobos

B<isoho.st> display xc0d77e2

=head2 remote

This command is essentially the B<admin> and B<display> commands combined into a single command that accepts 
the same parameters. Nothing more, nothing less.

It is also the default command executed by the desktop shortcut for a virtual machine.

=head3 EXAMPLES

B<isoho.st> remote

B<isoho.st> remote phobos

B<isoho.st> remote xc0d77e2

=head2 shortcut

Adds a shortcut for the given virtual machine onto the user's desktop. The shortcut will execute the B<remote> command. 

Note the caveat regarding the need to have the machine powered on in order for the B<display> component of the 
command to work. If the machine is powered off, first use the B<admin> interface to power it on, then exit the 
admin interface and restart it again from the shortcut.

The I<NAME> parameter may be either an I<ALIAS> or a machine I<IDENTIFIER> and can be omitted entirely if
there is only a single entry in the local credential store.

=head3 EXAMPLES

B<isoho.st> shortcut

B<isoho.st> shortcut phobos

B<isoho.st> shortcut xc0d77e2

=head1 AUTHOR

Edwin Peer
